docs/sources/operations/authentication.md, before:

---
title: Authentication
description: Authentication
weight: 10
---
# Authentication

Grafana Loki does not come with any included authentication layer. Operators are
expected to run an authenticating reverse proxy in front of your services. A helpful list of open-source reverse proxies to use:

-  [Pomerium](https://www.pomerium.com/docs), which has a [guide for securing Grafana](https://www.pomerium.com/docs/guides/grafana)
-  [NGINX](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/) using their [guide on restricting access with HTTP basic authentication](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/security-controls/configuring-http-basic-authentication/)
-  [OAuth2 proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy)
-  [HAProxy](https://www.haproxy.org/)


Note that when using Loki in multi-tenant mode, Loki requires the HTTP header
`X-Scope-OrgID` to be set to a string identifying the tenant; the responsibility
of populating this value should be handled by the authenticating reverse proxy.
Read the [multi-tenancy]({{< relref "./multi-tenancy" >}}) documentation for more information.

For information on authenticating Promtail, please see the docs for [how to
configure Promtail]({{< relref "../send-data/promtail/configuration" >}}).

Commit message:

[Docs] Create top level Manage section (#10461)
**What this PR does / why we need it**:

Part of the Epic to create a consistent documentation information
architecture across the three DB projects.

**Which issue(s) this PR fixes**:
Fixes #8718 

**Special notes for your reviewer**:
The original Issue called for moving files under Manage, but rather than
rename the folder and break links, I chose to make the "move" by
updating the topic metadata.
This PR also includes updates to topic metadata and removes or updates
page weights.

docs/sources/operations/authentication.md, after:

---
title: Authentication
menuTitle:  
description: Describes Loki's authentication.
weight: 
---
# Authentication

Grafana Loki does not come with any included authentication layer. Operators are
expected to run an authenticating reverse proxy in front of your services.

The scalable monolithic [deployment mode]({{< relref "../get-started/deployment-modes" >}}) requires a reverse proxy to be deployed in front of Loki, to direct client API requests to either the read or write nodes. The Loki Helm chart includes a default reverse proxy configuration, using Nginx.

A list of open-source reverse proxies you can use:

-  [Pomerium](https://www.pomerium.com/docs), which has a [guide for securing Grafana](https://www.pomerium.com/docs/guides/grafana)
-  [NGINX](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/) using their [guide on restricting access with HTTP basic authentication](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/security-controls/configuring-http-basic-authentication/)
-  [OAuth2 proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy)
-  [HAProxy](https://www.haproxy.org/)

Note that when using Loki in multi-tenant mode, Loki requires the HTTP header
`X-Scope-OrgID` to be set to a string identifying the tenant; the responsibility
of populating this value should be handled by the authenticating reverse proxy.
For more inforamtion, read the [multi-tenancy]({{< relref "./multi-tenancy" >}}) documentation.

For information on authenticating Promtail, see the documentation for [how to
configure Promtail]({{< relref "../send-data/promtail/configuration" >}}).
