docs/sources/clients/promtail/stages/match.md, before:

---
title: match
description: match stage
---
# match

The match stage is a filtering stage that conditionally applies a set of stages
or drop entries when a log entry matches a configurable [LogQL]({{< relref "../../../query" >}})
stream selector and filter expressions.

## Schema

```yaml
match:
  # LogQL stream selector and filter expressions.
  selector: <string>

  # Names the pipeline. When defined, creates an additional label in
  # the pipeline_duration_seconds histogram, where the value is
  # concatenated with job_name using an underscore.
  [pipeline_name: <string>]

  # Determines what action is taken when the selector matches the log
  # line. Defaults to keep. When set to drop, entries will be dropped
  # and no later metrics will be recorded.
  # Stages must be not defined when dropping entries.
  [action: <string> | default = "keep"]
  
  # If you specify `action: drop` the metric `logentry_dropped_lines_total` 
  # will be incremented for every line dropped.  By default the reason
  # label will be `match_stage` however you can optionally specify a custom value 
  # to be used in the `reason` label of that metric here.
  [drop_counter_reason: <string> | default = "match_stage"]

  # Nested set of pipeline stages only if the selector
  # matches the labels of the log entries:
  stages:
    - [
        <regex_stage>
        <json_stage> |
        <template_stage> |
        <match_stage> |
        <timestamp_stage> |
        <output_stage> |
        <labels_stage> |
        <metrics_stage> |
        <tenant_stage>
      ]
```

Refer to the [Promtail Configuration Reference]({{< relref "../configuration.md" >}}) for the
schema on the various other stages referenced here.

### Example

For the given pipeline:

```yaml
pipeline_stages:
- json:
    expressions:
      app:
- labels:
    app:
- match:
    selector: '{app="loki"}'
    stages:
    - json:
        expressions:
          msg: message
- match:
    pipeline_name: "app2"
    selector: '{app="pokey"}'
    action: keep
    stages:
    - json:
        expressions:
          msg: msg
- match:
    selector: '{app="promtail"} |~ ".*noisy error.*"'
    action: drop
    drop_counter_reason: promtail_noisy_error
- output:
    source: msg
```

And given log lines:

```json
{ "time":"2012-11-01T22:08:41+00:00", "app":"loki", "component": ["parser","type"], "level" : "WARN", "message" : "app1 log line" }
{ "time":"2012-11-01T22:08:41+00:00", "app":"promtail", "component": ["parser","type"], "level" : "ERROR", "message" : "foo noisy error" }
```

The first stage will add `app` with a value of `loki` into the extracted map for the first log line,
while the second stage will add `app` as a label (again with the value of `loki`).
The second line will follow the same flow and will be added the label `app` with a value of `promtail`.

The third stage uses LogQL to only execute the nested stages when there is a
label of `app` whose value is `loki`. This matches the first line in our case; the nested
`json` stage then adds `msg` into the extracted map with a value of `app1 log
line`.

The fourth stage uses LogQL to only executed the nested stages when there is a
label of `app` whose value is `pokey`. This does **not** match in our case, so
the nested `json` stage is not ran.

The fifth stage will drop any entries from the application `promtail` that matches
the regex `.*noisy error`. and will also increment the `logentry_dropped_lines_total` 
metric with a label `reason="promtail_noisy_error"`

The final `output` stage changes the contents of the log line to be the value of
`msg` from the extracted map. In this case, the log line is changed to `app1 log
line`.

Commit message:

Clarify that label filter expressions are not supported in promtail. (#9894)
**What this PR does / why we need it**:
Some users of Promtail seem to be confused that certain types of filter
expressions are not supported in Promtail's `match` stage.

This change clarifies what kind of filter expressions are supported.

**Which issue(s) this PR fixes**:
Fixes #5209

**Special notes for your reviewer**:

**Checklist**
- [ ] Reviewed the
[`CONTRIBUTING.md`](https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
guide (**required**)
- [x] Documentation added
- [ ] Tests updated
- [ ] `CHANGELOG.md` updated
- [ ] If the change is worth mentioning in the release notes, add
`add-to-release-notes` label
- [ ] Changes that require user attention or interaction to upgrade are
documented in `docs/sources/upgrading/_index.md`
- [ ] For Helm chart changes bump the Helm chart version in
`production/helm/loki/Chart.yaml` and update
`production/helm/loki/CHANGELOG.md` and
`production/helm/loki/README.md`. [Example
PR](https://github.com/grafana/loki/commit/d10549e3ece02120974929894ee333d07755d213)

---------

Co-authored-by: J Stickler <julie.stickler@grafana.com>

docs/sources/clients/promtail/stages/match.md, after:

---
title: match
description: match stage
---
# match

The match stage is a filtering stage that conditionally applies a set of stages
or drop entries when a log entry matches a configurable LogQL
[stream selector]({{< relref "../../../query/log_queries#log-stream-selector" >}}) and
[filter expressions]({{< relref "../../../query/log_queries#line-filter-expression" >}}).

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
The filters do not include label filter expressions such as `| label == "foobar"`.
{{% /admonition %}}

## Schema

```yaml
match:
  # LogQL stream selector and line filter expressions.
  selector: <string>

  # Names the pipeline. When defined, creates an additional label in
  # the pipeline_duration_seconds histogram, where the value is
  # concatenated with job_name using an underscore.
  [pipeline_name: <string>]

  # Determines what action is taken when the selector matches the log
  # line. Defaults to keep. When set to drop, entries will be dropped
  # and no later metrics will be recorded.
  # Stages must be not defined when dropping entries.
  [action: <string> | default = "keep"]
  
  # If you specify `action: drop` the metric `logentry_dropped_lines_total` 
  # will be incremented for every line dropped.  By default the reason
  # label will be `match_stage` however you can optionally specify a custom value 
  # to be used in the `reason` label of that metric here.
  [drop_counter_reason: <string> | default = "match_stage"]

  # Nested set of pipeline stages only if the selector
  # matches the labels of the log entries:
  stages:
    - [
        <regex_stage>
        <json_stage> |
        <template_stage> |
        <match_stage> |
        <timestamp_stage> |
        <output_stage> |
        <labels_stage> |
        <metrics_stage> |
        <tenant_stage>
      ]
```

Refer to the [Promtail Configuration Reference]({{< relref "../configuration.md" >}}) for the
schema on the various other stages referenced here.

### Example

For the given pipeline:

```yaml
pipeline_stages:
- json:
    expressions:
      app:
- labels:
    app:
- match:
    selector: '{app="loki"}'
    stages:
    - json:
        expressions:
          msg: message
- match:
    pipeline_name: "app2"
    selector: '{app="pokey"}'
    action: keep
    stages:
    - json:
        expressions:
          msg: msg
- match:
    selector: '{app="promtail"} |~ ".*noisy error.*"'
    action: drop
    drop_counter_reason: promtail_noisy_error
- output:
    source: msg
```

And given log lines:

```json
{ "time":"2012-11-01T22:08:41+00:00", "app":"loki", "component": ["parser","type"], "level" : "WARN", "message" : "app1 log line" }
{ "time":"2012-11-01T22:08:41+00:00", "app":"promtail", "component": ["parser","type"], "level" : "ERROR", "message" : "foo noisy error" }
```

The first stage will add `app` with a value of `loki` into the extracted map for the first log line,
while the second stage will add `app` as a label (again with the value of `loki`).
The second line will follow the same flow and will be added the label `app` with a value of `promtail`.

The third stage uses LogQL to only execute the nested stages when there is a
label of `app` whose value is `loki`. This matches the first line in our case; the nested
`json` stage then adds `msg` into the extracted map with a value of `app1 log
line`.

The fourth stage uses LogQL to only executed the nested stages when there is a
label of `app` whose value is `pokey`. This does **not** match in our case, so
the nested `json` stage is not ran.

The fifth stage will drop any entries from the application `promtail` that matches
the regex `.*noisy error`. and will also increment the `logentry_dropped_lines_total` 
metric with a label `reason="promtail_noisy_error"`

The final `output` stage changes the contents of the log line to be the value of
`msg` from the extracted map. In this case, the log line is changed to `app1 log
line`.
