docs/sources/clients/promtail/stages/tenant.md, before:

---
title: tenant
description: tenant stage
---
# tenant

The tenant stage is an action stage that sets the tenant ID for the log entry
picking it from a field in the extracted data map. If the field is missing, the
default promtail client [`tenant_id`]({{<relref "../configuration#clients">}}) will
be used.


## Schema

```yaml
tenant:
  # Either label, source or value config option is required, but not all (they
  # are mutually exclusive).

  # Name from labels to whose value should be set as tenant ID.
  [ label: <string> ]

  # Name from extracted data to whose value should be set as tenant ID.
  [ source: <string> ]

  # Value to use to set the tenant ID when this stage is executed. Useful
  # when this stage is included within a conditional pipeline with "match".
  [ value: <string> ]
```

### Example: extract the tenant ID from a structured log

For the given pipeline:

```yaml
pipeline_stages:
  - json:
      expressions:
        customer_id: customer_id
  - tenant:
      source: customer_id
```

Given the following log line:

```json
{"customer_id":"1","log":"log message\n","stream":"stderr","time":"2019-04-30T02:12:41.8443515Z"}
```

The first stage would extract `customer_id` into the extracted map with a value of
`1`. The tenant stage would set the `X-Scope-OrgID` request header (used by Loki to
identify the tenant) to the value of the `customer_id` extracted data, which is `1`.


### Example: override the tenant ID with the configured value

For the given pipeline:

```yaml
pipeline_stages:
  - json:
      expressions:
        app:
        message:
  - labels:
      app:
  - match:
      selector: '{app="api"}'
      stages:
        - tenant:
            value: "team-api"
  - output:
      source: message
```

Given the following log line:

```json
{"app":"api","log":"log message\n","stream":"stderr","time":"2019-04-30T02:12:41.8443515Z"}
```

The pipeline would:

1. Decode the JSON log
1. Set the label `app="api"`
1. Process the `match` stage checking if the `{app="api"}` selector matches
   and - whenever it matches - run the sub stages. The `tenant` sub stage
   would override the tenant with the value `"team-api"`.

### Example: extract the tenant ID from kubernetes sd

```yaml
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: kubernetes-pods-name

    kubernetes_sd_configs:
      - role: pod

    relabel_configs:
      - action: replace
        source_labels:
          - __meta_kubernetes_namespace
        target_label: namespace

    pipeline_stages:
    - match:
        selector: '{namespace=".+"}'
        stages:
          - tenant:
              label: "namespace"
    - output:
         source: message
```

Commit message:

Fix missing ~ in the regexp match for namespace

docs/sources/clients/promtail/stages/tenant.md, after:

---
title: tenant
description: tenant stage
---
# tenant

The tenant stage is an action stage that sets the tenant ID for the log entry
picking it from a field in the extracted data map. If the field is missing, the
default promtail client [`tenant_id`]({{<relref "../configuration#clients">}}) will
be used.


## Schema

```yaml
tenant:
  # Either label, source or value config option is required, but not all (they
  # are mutually exclusive).

  # Name from labels to whose value should be set as tenant ID.
  [ label: <string> ]

  # Name from extracted data to whose value should be set as tenant ID.
  [ source: <string> ]

  # Value to use to set the tenant ID when this stage is executed. Useful
  # when this stage is included within a conditional pipeline with "match".
  [ value: <string> ]
```

### Example: extract the tenant ID from a structured log

For the given pipeline:

```yaml
pipeline_stages:
  - json:
      expressions:
        customer_id: customer_id
  - tenant:
      source: customer_id
```

Given the following log line:

```json
{"customer_id":"1","log":"log message\n","stream":"stderr","time":"2019-04-30T02:12:41.8443515Z"}
```

The first stage would extract `customer_id` into the extracted map with a value of
`1`. The tenant stage would set the `X-Scope-OrgID` request header (used by Loki to
identify the tenant) to the value of the `customer_id` extracted data, which is `1`.


### Example: override the tenant ID with the configured value

For the given pipeline:

```yaml
pipeline_stages:
  - json:
      expressions:
        app:
        message:
  - labels:
      app:
  - match:
      selector: '{app="api"}'
      stages:
        - tenant:
            value: "team-api"
  - output:
      source: message
```

Given the following log line:

```json
{"app":"api","log":"log message\n","stream":"stderr","time":"2019-04-30T02:12:41.8443515Z"}
```

The pipeline would:

1. Decode the JSON log
1. Set the label `app="api"`
1. Process the `match` stage checking if the `{app="api"}` selector matches
   and - whenever it matches - run the sub stages. The `tenant` sub stage
   would override the tenant with the value `"team-api"`.

### Example: extract the tenant ID from kubernetes sd

```yaml
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: kubernetes-pods-name

    kubernetes_sd_configs:
      - role: pod

    relabel_configs:
      - action: replace
        source_labels:
          - __meta_kubernetes_namespace
        target_label: namespace

    pipeline_stages:
    - match:
        selector: '{namespace=~".+"}'
        stages:
          - tenant:
              label: "namespace"
    - output:
         source: message
```

The pipeline would:

1. Match any log where the `namespace` label matched the regexp `.+`
1. Process the `match` stage checking if the `{namespace=~".+"}` selector matches
   and - whenever it matches - run the sub stages. The `tenant` sub stage
   would override the tenant with the value with the value of the `namespace` label,
   if it was set.
