docs/sources/send-data/logstash/_index.md, before:

---
title: Logstash plugin
menuTitle:   
description: Instructions to install, configure, and use the Logstash plugin to send logs to Loki.
aliases: 
- ../send-data/a/logstash/
weight:  800
---
# Logstash plugin

Grafana Loki has a [Logstash](https://www.elastic.co/logstash) output plugin called
`logstash-output-loki` that enables shipping logs to a Loki
instance or [Grafana Cloud](/products/cloud/).

## Installation

### Local

If you need to install the Logstash output plugin manually you can do simply so by using the command below:

```bash
$ bin/logstash-plugin install logstash-output-loki
```

This will download the latest gem for the output plugin and install it in logstash.

### Docker

We also provide a docker image on [docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/logstash-output-loki). The image contains logstash and the Loki output plugin
already pre-installed.

For example if you want to run logstash in docker with the `loki.conf` as pipeline configuration you can use the command bellow :

```bash
docker run -v `pwd`/loki-test.conf:/home/logstash/ --rm grafana/logstash-output-loki:1.0.1 -f loki-test.conf
```

### Kubernetes

We also provide default helm values for scraping logs with Filebeat and forward them to Loki with logstash in our `loki-stack` umbrella chart.
You can switch from Promtail to logstash by using the following command:

```bash
helm upgrade --install loki loki/loki-stack \
    --set filebeat.enabled=true,logstash.enabled=true,promtail.enabled=false \
    --set loki.fullnameOverride=loki,logstash.fullnameOverride=logstash-loki
```

This will automatically scrape all pods logs in the cluster and send them to Loki with Kubernetes metadata attached as labels.
You can use the [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/loki-stack/values.yaml) file as a starting point for your own configuration.

## Usage and Configuration

To configure Logstash to forward logs to Loki, simply add the `loki` output to your [Logstash configuration file](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/configuration-file-structure.html) as documented below :

```conf
output {
  loki {
    [url => "" | default = none | required=true]

    [tenant_id => string | default = nil | required=false]

    [message_field => string | default = "message" | required=false]
    
    [include_fields => array | default = [] | required=false]

    [batch_wait => number | default = 1(s) | required=false]

    [batch_size => number | default = 102400(bytes) | required=false]

    [min_delay => number | default = 1(s) | required=false]

    [max_delay => number | default = 300(s) | required=false]

    [retries => number | default = 10 | required=false]

    [username => string | default = nil | required=false]

    [password => secret | default = nil | required=false]

    [cert => path | default = nil | required=false]

    [key => path | default = nil| required=false]

    [ca_cert => path | default = nil | required=false]

    [insecure_skip_verify => boolean | default = false | required=false]
  }
}
```

By default Loki will create entry from event fields it receives.
A logstash event as shown below.

```conf
{
  "@timestamp" => 2017-04-26T19:33:39.257Z,
  "src"        => "localhost",
  "@version"   => "1",
  "host"       => "localhost.localdomain",
  "pid"        => "1",
  "message"    => "Apr 26 12:20:02 localhost systemd[1]: Starting system activity accounting tool...",
  "type"       => "stdin",
  "prog"       => "systemd",
}
```

Contains a `message` and `@timestamp` fields, which are respectively used to form the Loki entry log line and timestamp.

> You can use a different property for the log line by using the configuration property [`message_field`](#message_field). If you also need to change the timestamp value use the Logstash `date` filter to change the `@timestamp` field.

All other fields (except nested fields) will form the label set (key value pairs) attached to the log line. [This means you're responsible for mutating and dropping high cardinality labels](/blog/2020/04/21/how-labels-in-loki-can-make-log-queries-faster-and-easier/) such as client IPs.
You can usually do so by using a [`mutate`](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/plugins-filters-mutate.html) filter.

**Note:** In version 1.1.0 and greater of this plugin you can also specify a list of labels to allowlist via the `include_fields` configuration.

For example the configuration below :

```conf
input {
  ...
}

filter {
  mutate {
    add_field => {
      "cluster" => "us-central1"
      "job" => "logstash"
    }
    replace => { "type" => "stream"}
    remove_field => ["src"]
  }
}
output {
  loki {
    url => "http://myloki.domain:3100/loki/api/v1/push"
  }
}
```

Will add `cluster` and `job` static labels, remove `src` fields and replace `type` to be named `stream`.

If you want to include nested fields or metadata fields (starting with `@`) you need to rename them.

For example when using Filebeat with the [`add_kubernetes_metadata`](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/add-kubernetes-metadata.html) processor, it will attach Kubernetes metadata to your events like below:

```json
{
  "kubernetes" : {
    "labels" : {
      "app" : "MY-APP",
      "pod-template-hash" : "959f54cd",
      "serving" : "true",
      "version" : "1.0",
      "visualize" : "true"
    },
    "pod" : {
      "uid" : "e20173cb-3c5f-11ea-836e-02c1ee65b375",
      "name" : "MY-APP-959f54cd-lhd5p"
    },
    "node" : {
      "name" : "ip-xxx-xx-xx-xxx.ec2.internal"
    },
    "container" : {
      "name" : "istio"
    },
    "namespace" : "production",
    "replicaset" : {
      "name" : "MY-APP-959f54cd"
    }
  },
  "message": "Failed to parse configuration",
  "@timestamp": "2017-04-26T19:33:39.257Z",
}
```

The filter below show you how to extract those Kubernetes fields into labels (`container_name`,`namespace`,`pod` and `host`):

```conf
filter {
  if [kubernetes] {
    mutate {
      add_field => {
        "container_name" => "%{[kubernetes][container][name]}"
        "namespace" => "%{[kubernetes][namespace]}"
        "pod" => "%{[kubernetes][pod][name]}"
      }
      replace => { "host" => "%{[kubernetes][node][name]}"}
    }
  }
  mutate {
    remove_field => ["tags"]
  }
}
```

### Configuration Properties

#### url

The url of the Loki server to send logs to.
When sending data the push path need to also be provided e.g. `http://localhost:3100/loki/api/v1/push`.

If you want to send to [GrafanaCloud](/products/cloud/) you would use `https://logs-prod-us-central1.grafana.net/loki/api/v1/push`.

#### username / password

Specify a username and password if the Loki server requires basic authentication.
If using the [GrafanaLab's hosted Loki](/products/cloud/), the username needs to be set to your instance/user id and the password should be a Grafana.com api key.

#### message_field

Message field to use for log lines. You can use logstash key accessor language to grab nested property, for example : `[log][message]`.

#### include_fields

An array of fields which will be mapped to labels and sent to Loki, when this list is configured **only** these fields will be sent, all other fields will be ignored.

#### batch_wait

Interval in seconds to wait before pushing a batch of records to Loki. This means even if the [batch size](#batch_size) is not reached after `batch_wait` a partial batch will be sent, this is to ensure freshness of the data.

#### batch_size

Maximum batch size to accrue before pushing to Loki. Defaults to 102400 bytes

#### Backoff config

##### min_delay => 1(1s)

Initial backoff time between retries

##### max_delay => 300(5m)

Maximum backoff time between retries

##### retries => 10

Maximum number of retries to do. Setting it to `0` will retry indefinitely.

#### tenant_id

Loki is a multi-tenant log storage platform and all requests sent must include a tenant.  For some installations the tenant will be set automatically by an authenticating proxy.  Otherwise you can define a tenant to be passed through.  The tenant can be any string value.

#### client certificate verification

Specify a pair of client certificate and private key with `cert` and `key` if a reverse proxy with client certificate verification is configured in front of Loki. `ca_cert` can also be specified if the server uses custom certificate authority.

### insecure_skip_verify

A flag to disable server certificate verification. By default it is set to `false`.

### Full configuration example

```conf
input {
  beats {
    port => 5044
  }
}

filter {
  if [kubernetes] {
    mutate {
      add_field => {
        "container_name" => "%{[kubernetes][container][name]}"
        "namespace" => "%{[kubernetes][namespace]}"
        "pod" => "%{[kubernetes][pod][name]}"
      }
      replace => { "host" => "%{[kubernetes][node][name]}"}
    }
  }
  mutate {
    remove_field => ["tags"]  # Note: with include_fields defined below this wouldn't be necessary
  }
}

output {
  loki {
    url => "https://logs-prod-us-central1.grafana.net/loki/api/v1/push"
    username => "3241"
    password => "REDACTED"
    batch_size => 112640 #112.64 kilobytes
    retries => 5
    min_delay => 3
    max_delay => 500
    message_field => "message"
    include_fields => ["container_name","namespace","pod","host"]
  }
  # stdout { codec => rubydebug }
}
```

Commit message:

add support for structure metadata

docs/sources/send-data/logstash/_index.md, after:

---
title: Logstash plugin
menuTitle:
description: Instructions to install, configure, and use the Logstash plugin to send logs to Loki.
aliases:
- ../send-data/a/logstash/
weight:  800
---
# Logstash plugin

Grafana Loki has a [Logstash](https://www.elastic.co/logstash) output plugin called
`logstash-output-loki` that enables shipping logs to a Loki
instance or [Grafana Cloud](/products/cloud/).

## Installation

### Local

If you need to install the Logstash output plugin manually you can do simply so by using the command below:

```bash
$ bin/logstash-plugin install logstash-output-loki
```

This will download the latest gem for the output plugin and install it in logstash.

### Docker

We also provide a docker image on [docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/logstash-output-loki). The image contains logstash and the Loki output plugin
already pre-installed.

For example if you want to run logstash in docker with the `loki.conf` as pipeline configuration you can use the command bellow :

```bash
docker run -v `pwd`/loki-test.conf:/home/logstash/ --rm grafana/logstash-output-loki:1.0.1 -f loki-test.conf
```

### Kubernetes

We also provide default helm values for scraping logs with Filebeat and forward them to Loki with logstash in our `loki-stack` umbrella chart.
You can switch from Promtail to logstash by using the following command:

```bash
helm upgrade --install loki loki/loki-stack \
    --set filebeat.enabled=true,logstash.enabled=true,promtail.enabled=false \
    --set loki.fullnameOverride=loki,logstash.fullnameOverride=logstash-loki
```

This will automatically scrape all pods logs in the cluster and send them to Loki with Kubernetes metadata attached as labels.
You can use the [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/loki-stack/values.yaml) file as a starting point for your own configuration.

## Usage and Configuration

To configure Logstash to forward logs to Loki, simply add the `loki` output to your [Logstash configuration file](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/configuration-file-structure.html) as documented below :

```conf
output {
  loki {
    [url => "" | default = none | required=true]

    [tenant_id => string | default = nil | required=false]

    [message_field => string | default = "message" | required=false]

    [include_fields => array | default = [] | required=false]

    [metadata_fields => array | default = [] | required=false]

    [batch_wait => number | default = 1(s) | required=false]

    [batch_size => number | default = 102400(bytes) | required=false]

    [min_delay => number | default = 1(s) | required=false]

    [max_delay => number | default = 300(s) | required=false]

    [retries => number | default = 10 | required=false]

    [username => string | default = nil | required=false]

    [password => secret | default = nil | required=false]

    [cert => path | default = nil | required=false]

    [key => path | default = nil| required=false]

    [ca_cert => path | default = nil | required=false]

    [insecure_skip_verify => boolean | default = false | required=false]
  }
}
```

By default Loki will create entry from event fields it receives.
A logstash event as shown below.

```conf
{
  "@timestamp" => 2017-04-26T19:33:39.257Z,
  "src"        => "localhost",
  "@version"   => "1",
  "host"       => "localhost.localdomain",
  "pid"        => "1",
  "message"    => "Apr 26 12:20:02 localhost systemd[1]: Starting system activity accounting tool...",
  "type"       => "stdin",
  "prog"       => "systemd",
}
```

Contains a `message` and `@timestamp` fields, which are respectively used to form the Loki entry log line and timestamp.

> You can use a different property for the log line by using the configuration property [`message_field`](#message_field). If you also need to change the timestamp value use the Logstash `date` filter to change the `@timestamp` field.

All other fields (except nested fields) will form the label set (key value pairs) attached to the log line. [This means you're responsible for mutating and dropping high cardinality labels](/blog/2020/04/21/how-labels-in-loki-can-make-log-queries-faster-and-easier/) such as client IPs.
You can usually do so by using a [`mutate`](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/plugins-filters-mutate.html) filter.

For example the configuration below :

```conf
input {
  ...
}

filter {
  mutate {
    add_field => {
      "cluster" => "us-central1"
      "job" => "logstash"
    }
    replace => { "type" => "stream"}
    remove_field => ["src"]
  }
}
output {
  loki {
    url => "http://myloki.domain:3100/loki/api/v1/push"
  }
}
```

Will add `cluster` and `job` static labels, remove `src` fields and replace `type` to be named `stream`.

If you want to include nested fields or metadata fields (starting with `@`) you need to rename them.

For example when using Filebeat with the [`add_kubernetes_metadata`](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/add-kubernetes-metadata.html) processor, it will attach Kubernetes metadata to your events like below:

```json
{
  "kubernetes" : {
    "labels" : {
      "app" : "MY-APP",
      "pod-template-hash" : "959f54cd",
      "serving" : "true",
      "version" : "1.0",
      "visualize" : "true"
    },
    "pod" : {
      "uid" : "e20173cb-3c5f-11ea-836e-02c1ee65b375",
      "name" : "MY-APP-959f54cd-lhd5p"
    },
    "node" : {
      "name" : "ip-xxx-xx-xx-xxx.ec2.internal"
    },
    "container" : {
      "name" : "istio"
    },
    "namespace" : "production",
    "replicaset" : {
      "name" : "MY-APP-959f54cd"
    }
  },
  "message": "Failed to parse configuration",
  "@timestamp": "2017-04-26T19:33:39.257Z",
}
```

The filter below show you how to extract those Kubernetes fields into labels (`container_name`,`namespace`,`pod` and `host`):

```conf
filter {
  if [kubernetes] {
    mutate {
      add_field => {
        "container_name" => "%{[kubernetes][container][name]}"
        "namespace" => "%{[kubernetes][namespace]}"
        "pod" => "%{[kubernetes][pod][name]}"
      }
      replace => { "host" => "%{[kubernetes][node][name]}"}
    }
  }
  mutate {
    remove_field => ["tags"]
  }
}
```

### Version Notes

Important notes regarding versions:

- Version 1.1.0 and greater of this plugin you can also specify a list of labels to allow list via the `include_fields` configuration.
- Version 1.2.0 and greater of this plugin you can also specify a structured metadata via the `metadata_fields` configuration.

### Configuration Properties

#### url

The url of the Loki server to send logs to.
When sending data the push path need to also be provided e.g. `http://localhost:3100/loki/api/v1/push`.

If you want to send to [GrafanaCloud](/products/cloud/) you would use `https://logs-prod-us-central1.grafana.net/loki/api/v1/push`.

#### username / password

Specify a username and password if the Loki server requires basic authentication.
If using the [GrafanaLab's hosted Loki](/products/cloud/), the username needs to be set to your instance/user id and the password should be a Grafana.com api key.

#### message_field

Message field to use for log lines. You can use logstash key accessor language to grab nested property, for example : `[log][message]`.

#### include_fields

An array of fields which will be mapped to labels and sent to Loki, when this list is configured **only** these fields will be sent, all other fields will be ignored.

#### metadata_fields

An array of fields which will be mapped to [structured metadata]({{< relref "../../get-started/labels/structured-metadata.md" >}}) and sent to Loki for each log line

#### batch_wait

Interval in seconds to wait before pushing a batch of records to Loki. This means even if the [batch size](#batch_size) is not reached after `batch_wait` a partial batch will be sent, this is to ensure freshness of the data.

#### batch_size

Maximum batch size to accrue before pushing to Loki. Defaults to 102400 bytes

#### Backoff config

##### min_delay => 1(1s)

Initial backoff time between retries

##### max_delay => 300(5m)

Maximum backoff time between retries

##### retries => 10

Maximum number of retries to do. Setting it to `0` will retry indefinitely.

#### tenant_id

Loki is a multi-tenant log storage platform and all requests sent must include a tenant.  For some installations the tenant will be set automatically by an authenticating proxy.  Otherwise you can define a tenant to be passed through.  The tenant can be any string value.

#### client certificate verification

Specify a pair of client certificate and private key with `cert` and `key` if a reverse proxy with client certificate verification is configured in front of Loki. `ca_cert` can also be specified if the server uses custom certificate authority.

#### insecure_skip_verify

A flag to disable server certificate verification. By default it is set to `false`.

### Full configuration example

```conf
input {
  beats {
    port => 5044
  }
}

filter {
  if [kubernetes] {
    mutate {
      add_field => {
        "container_name" => "%{[kubernetes][container][name]}"
        "namespace" => "%{[kubernetes][namespace]}"
        "pod" => "%{[kubernetes][pod][name]}"
      }
      replace => { "host" => "%{[kubernetes][node][name]}"}
    }
  }
  mutate {
    remove_field => ["tags"]  # Note: with include_fields defined below this wouldn't be necessary
  }
}

output {
  loki {
    url => "https://logs-prod-us-central1.grafana.net/loki/api/v1/push"
    username => "3241"
    password => "REDACTED"
    batch_size => 112640 #112.64 kilobytes
    retries => 5
    min_delay => 3
    max_delay => 500
    message_field => "message"
    include_fields => ["container_name","namespace","pod","host"]
    metadata_fields => ["pod"]
  }
  # stdout { codec => rubydebug }
}
```
