docs/sources/query/_index.md, before:

---
title: "LogQL: Log query language"
menuTItle: Query
description: Provides a reference topic for LogQL, Loki's query language for logs.
aliases: 
- ./logql
weight: 600
---

# LogQL: Log query language

LogQL is Grafana Loki's PromQL-inspired query language.
Queries act as if they are a distributed `grep` to aggregate log sources.
LogQL uses labels and operators for filtering.

There are two types of LogQL queries:

- [Log queries]({{< relref "./log_queries" >}}) return the contents of log lines.
- [Metric queries]({{< relref "./metric_queries" >}}) extend log queries to calculate values
based on query results.

## Binary operators

### Arithmetic operators

The following binary arithmetic operators exist in Loki:

- `+` (addition)
- `-` (subtraction)
- `*` (multiplication)
- `/` (division)
- `%` (modulo)
- `^` (power/exponentiation)

Binary arithmetic operators are defined between two literals (scalars), a literal and a vector, and two vectors.

Between two literals, the behavior is obvious:
They evaluate to another literal that is the result of the operator applied to both scalar operands (`1 + 1 = 2`).

Between a vector and a literal, the operator is applied to the value of every data sample in the vector, e.g. if a time series vector is multiplied by 2, the result is another vector in which every sample value of the original vector is multiplied by 2.

Between two vectors, a binary arithmetic operator is applied to each entry in the left-hand side vector and its matching element in the right-hand vector.
The result is propagated into the result vector with the grouping labels becoming the output label set. Entries for which no matching entry in the right-hand vector can be found are not part of the result.

Pay special attention to [operator order](#order-of-operations) when chaining arithmetic operators.

#### Arithmetic Examples

Implement a health check with a simple query:

```logql
1 + 1
```

Double the rate of a log stream's entries:

```logql
sum(rate({app="foo"}[1m])) * 2
```

Get proportion of warning logs to error logs for the `foo` app

```logql
sum(rate({app="foo", level="warn"}[1m])) / sum(rate({app="foo", level="error"}[1m]))
```

### Logical and set operators

These logical/set binary operators are only defined between two vectors:

- `and` (intersection)
- `or` (union)
- `unless` (complement)

`vector1 and vector2` results in a vector consisting of the elements of vector1 for which there are elements in vector2 with exactly matching label sets.
Other elements are dropped.

`vector1 or vector2` results in a vector that contains all original elements (label sets + values) of vector1 and additionally all elements of vector2 which do not have matching label sets in vector1.

`vector1 unless vector2` results in a vector consisting of the elements of vector1 for which there are no elements in vector2 with exactly matching label sets.
All matching elements in both vectors are dropped.

##### Binary operators examples

This contrived query will return the intersection of these queries, effectively `rate({app="bar"})`:

```logql
rate({app=~"foo|bar"}[1m]) and rate({app="bar"}[1m])
```

### Comparison operators

- `==` (equality)
- `!=` (inequality)
- `>` (greater than)
- `>=` (greater than or equal to)
- `<` (less than)
- `<=` (less than or equal to)

Comparison operators are defined between scalar/scalar, vector/scalar, and vector/vector value pairs.
By default they filter.
Their behavior can be modified by providing `bool` after the operator, which will return 0 or 1 for the value rather than filtering.

Between two scalars, these operators result in another scalar that is either 0 (false) or 1 (true), depending on the comparison result.
The `bool` modifier must **not** be provided.

`1 >= 1` is equivalent to `1`

Between a vector and a scalar, these operators are applied to the value of every data sample in the vector, and vector elements between which the comparison result is false get dropped from the result vector.
If the `bool` modifier is provided, vector elements that would be dropped instead have the value 0 and vector elements that would be kept have the value 1.

Filters the streams which logged at least 10 lines in the last minute:

```logql
count_over_time({foo="bar"}[1m]) > 10
```

Attach the value(s) `0`/`1` to streams that logged less/more than 10 lines:

```logql
count_over_time({foo="bar"}[1m]) > bool 10
```

Between two vectors, these operators behave as a filter by default, applied to matching entries.
Vector elements for which the expression is not true or which do not find a match on the other side of the expression get dropped from the result, while the others are propagated into a result vector.
If the `bool` modifier is provided, vector elements that would have been dropped instead have the value 0 and vector elements that would be kept have the value 1, with the grouping labels again becoming the output label set.

Return the streams matching `app=foo` without app labels that have higher counts within the last minute than their counterparts matching `app=bar` without app labels:

```logql
sum without(app) (count_over_time({app="foo"}[1m])) > sum without(app) (count_over_time({app="bar"}[1m]))
```

Same as above, but vectors have their values set to `1` if they pass the comparison or `0` if they fail/would otherwise have been filtered out:

```logql
sum without(app) (count_over_time({app="foo"}[1m])) > bool sum without(app) (count_over_time({app="bar"}[1m]))
```

### Order of operations

When chaining or combining operators, you have to consider operator precedence:
Generally, you can assume regular [mathematical convention](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Order_of_operations) with operators on the same precedence level being left-associative.

More details can be found in the [Golang language documentation](https://golang.org/ref/spec#Operator_precedence).

`1 + 2 / 3` is equal to `1 + ( 2 / 3 )`.

`2 * 3 % 2` is evaluated as `(2 * 3) % 2`.

### Keywords on and ignoring
The `ignoring` keyword causes specified labels to be ignored during matching.
The syntax:
```logql
<vector expr> <bin-op> ignoring(<labels>) <vector expr>
```
This example will return the machines which total count within the last minutes exceed average value for app `foo`.
```logql
max by(machine) (count_over_time({app="foo"}[1m])) > bool ignoring(machine) avg(count_over_time({app="foo"}[1m]))
```
The on keyword reduces the set of considered labels to a specified list.
The syntax:
```logql
<vector expr> <bin-op> on(<labels>) <vector expr>
```
This example will return every machine total count within the last minutes ratio in app `foo`:
```logql
sum by(machine) (count_over_time({app="foo"}[1m])) / on() sum(count_over_time({app="foo"}[1m]))
```

### Many-to-one and one-to-many vector matches
Many-to-one and one-to-many matchings occur when each vector element on the "one"-side can match with multiple elements on the "many"-side. You must explicitly request matching by using the group_left or group_right modifier, where left or right determines which vector has the higher cardinality.
The syntax:
```logql
<vector expr> <bin-op> ignoring(<labels>) group_left(<labels>) <vector expr>
<vector expr> <bin-op> ignoring(<labels>) group_right(<labels>) <vector expr>
<vector expr> <bin-op> on(<labels>) group_left(<labels>) <vector expr>
<vector expr> <bin-op> on(<labels>) group_right(<labels>) <vector expr>
```
The label list provided with the group modifier contains additional labels from the "one"-side that are included in the result metrics. And a label should only appear in one of the lists specified by `on` and `group_x`. Every time series of the result vector must be uniquely identifiable.
Grouping modifiers can only be used for comparison and arithmetic. By default, the system matches `and`, `unless`, and `or` operations with all entries in the right vector.

The following example returns the rates requests partitioned by `app` and `status` as a percentage of total requests.
```logql
sum by (app, status) (
  rate(
    {job="http-server"}
      | json
      [5m]
  )
)
/ on (app) group_left
sum by (app) (
  rate(
    {job="http-server"}
      | json
      [5m]
  )
)

=>
[
  {app="foo", status="200"} => 0.8
  {app="foo", status="400"} => 0.1
  {app="foo", status="500"} => 0.1
]
```
This version uses `group_left(<labels>)` to include `<labels>` from the right hand side in the result and returns the cost of discarded events per user, organization, and namespace:
```logql
sum by (user, namespace) (
  rate(
    {job="events"}
      | logfmt
      | discarded="true"
      [5m]
  )
)
* on (user) group_left(organization)
max_over_time(
  {job="cost-calculator"}
    | logfmt
    | unwrap cost
    [5m]
) by (user, organization)

=>
[
  {user="foo", namespace="dev", organization="little-org"} => 10
  {user="foo", namespace="prod", organization="little-org"} => 50
  {user="bar", namespace="dev", organization="big-org"} => 70
  {user="bar", namespace="prod", organization="big-org"} => 200
]
```

## Comments

LogQL queries can be commented using the `#` character:

```logql
{app="foo"} # anything that comes after will not be interpreted in your query
```

With multi-line LogQL queries, the query parser can exclude whole or partial lines using `#`:

```logql
{app="foo"}
    | json
    # this line will be ignored
    | bar="baz" # this checks if bar = "baz"
```

## Pipeline Errors

There are multiple reasons which cause pipeline processing errors, such as:

- A numeric label filter may fail to turn a label value into a number
- A metric conversion for a label may fail.
- A log line is not a valid json document.
- etc...

When those failures happen, Loki won't filter out those log lines. Instead they are passed into the next stage of the pipeline with a new system label named `__error__`. The only way to filter out errors is by using a label filter expressions. The `__error__` label can't be renamed via the language.

For example to remove json errors:

```logql
  {cluster="ops-tools1",container="ingress-nginx"}
    | json
    | __error__ != "JSONParserErr"
```

Alternatively you can remove all error using a catch all matcher such as `__error__ = ""` or even show only errors using `__error__ != ""`.

The filter should be placed after the stage that generated this error. This means if you need to remove errors from an unwrap expression it needs to be placed after the unwrap.

```logql
quantile_over_time(
	0.99,
	{container="ingress-nginx",service="hosted-grafana"}
	| json
	| unwrap response_latency_seconds
	| __error__=""[1m]
	) by (cluster)
```

>Metric queries cannot contain errors, in case errors are found during execution, Loki will return an error and appropriate status code.

## Functions

Loki supports functions to operate on data.

### label_replace()

For each time series in `v`,

```
label_replace(v instant-vector,
    dst_label string,
    replacement string,
    src_label string,
    regex string)
```
matches the regular expression `regex` against the label `src_label`.
If it matches, then the time series is returned with the label `dst_label` replaced by the expansion of `replacement`.

`$1` is replaced with the first matching subgroup,
`$2` with the second etc.
If the regular expression doesn't match,
then the time series is returned unchanged.

This example will return a vector with each time series having a `foo` label with the value `a` added to it:

```logql
label_replace(rate({job="api-server",service="a:c"} |= "err" [1m]), "foo", "$1",
  "service", "(.*):.*")
```

Commit message:

docs: document pattern match filter

docs/sources/query/_index.md, after:

---
title: "LogQL: Log query language"
menuTItle: Query
description: Provides a reference topic for LogQL, Loki's query language for logs.
aliases: 
- ./logql
weight: 600
---

# LogQL: Log query language

LogQL is Grafana Loki's PromQL-inspired query language.
Queries act as if they are a distributed `grep` to aggregate log sources.
LogQL uses labels and operators for filtering.

There are two types of LogQL queries:

- [Log queries]({{< relref "./log_queries" >}}) return the contents of log lines.
- [Metric queries]({{< relref "./metric_queries" >}}) extend log queries to calculate values
based on query results.

## Binary operators

### Arithmetic operators

The following binary arithmetic operators exist in Loki:

- `+` (addition)
- `-` (subtraction)
- `*` (multiplication)
- `/` (division)
- `%` (modulo)
- `^` (power/exponentiation)

Binary arithmetic operators are defined between two literals (scalars), a literal and a vector, and two vectors.

Between two literals, the behavior is obvious:
They evaluate to another literal that is the result of the operator applied to both scalar operands (`1 + 1 = 2`).

Between a vector and a literal, the operator is applied to the value of every data sample in the vector, e.g. if a time series vector is multiplied by 2, the result is another vector in which every sample value of the original vector is multiplied by 2.

Between two vectors, a binary arithmetic operator is applied to each entry in the left-hand side vector and its matching element in the right-hand vector.
The result is propagated into the result vector with the grouping labels becoming the output label set. Entries for which no matching entry in the right-hand vector can be found are not part of the result.

Pay special attention to [operator order](#order-of-operations) when chaining arithmetic operators.

#### Arithmetic Examples

Implement a health check with a simple query:

```logql
1 + 1
```

Double the rate of a log stream's entries:

```logql
sum(rate({app="foo"}[1m])) * 2
```

Get proportion of warning logs to error logs for the `foo` app

```logql
sum(rate({app="foo", level="warn"}[1m])) / sum(rate({app="foo", level="error"}[1m]))
```

### Logical and set operators

These logical/set binary operators are only defined between two vectors:

- `and` (intersection)
- `or` (union)
- `unless` (complement)

`vector1 and vector2` results in a vector consisting of the elements of vector1 for which there are elements in vector2 with exactly matching label sets.
Other elements are dropped.

`vector1 or vector2` results in a vector that contains all original elements (label sets + values) of vector1 and additionally all elements of vector2 which do not have matching label sets in vector1.

`vector1 unless vector2` results in a vector consisting of the elements of vector1 for which there are no elements in vector2 with exactly matching label sets.
All matching elements in both vectors are dropped.

##### Binary operators examples

This contrived query will return the intersection of these queries, effectively `rate({app="bar"})`:

```logql
rate({app=~"foo|bar"}[1m]) and rate({app="bar"}[1m])
```

### Comparison operators

- `==` (equality)
- `!=` (inequality)
- `>` (greater than)
- `>=` (greater than or equal to)
- `<` (less than)
- `<=` (less than or equal to)

Comparison operators are defined between scalar/scalar, vector/scalar, and vector/vector value pairs.
By default they filter.
Their behavior can be modified by providing `bool` after the operator, which will return 0 or 1 for the value rather than filtering.

Between two scalars, these operators result in another scalar that is either 0 (false) or 1 (true), depending on the comparison result.
The `bool` modifier must **not** be provided.

`1 >= 1` is equivalent to `1`

Between a vector and a scalar, these operators are applied to the value of every data sample in the vector, and vector elements between which the comparison result is false get dropped from the result vector.
If the `bool` modifier is provided, vector elements that would be dropped instead have the value 0 and vector elements that would be kept have the value 1.

Filters the streams which logged at least 10 lines in the last minute:

```logql
count_over_time({foo="bar"}[1m]) > 10
```

Attach the value(s) `0`/`1` to streams that logged less/more than 10 lines:

```logql
count_over_time({foo="bar"}[1m]) > bool 10
```

Between two vectors, these operators behave as a filter by default, applied to matching entries.
Vector elements for which the expression is not true or which do not find a match on the other side of the expression get dropped from the result, while the others are propagated into a result vector.
If the `bool` modifier is provided, vector elements that would have been dropped instead have the value 0 and vector elements that would be kept have the value 1, with the grouping labels again becoming the output label set.

Return the streams matching `app=foo` without app labels that have higher counts within the last minute than their counterparts matching `app=bar` without app labels:

```logql
sum without(app) (count_over_time({app="foo"}[1m])) > sum without(app) (count_over_time({app="bar"}[1m]))
```

Same as above, but vectors have their values set to `1` if they pass the comparison or `0` if they fail/would otherwise have been filtered out:

```logql
sum without(app) (count_over_time({app="foo"}[1m])) > bool sum without(app) (count_over_time({app="bar"}[1m]))
```

### Pattern match filter operators

{{% admonition type="warning" %}}
The pattern match filters are an [experimental feature](/docs/release-life-cycle/). Engineering and on-call support is not available. Documentation is either limited or not provided outside of code comments. No SLA is provided.
{{% /admonition %}}

- `|>` (line match pattern)
- `!>` (line match not pattern)

Despite the fact that filtering by patterns is a subset of the regex filter scope, these operators extend the syntax explicitly.

The filter presumes that placeholders mask arbitrary non-empty literals. Thus, the `"<_>"` pattern matches any non-empty line, and the `""`a pattern only matches empty lines. The semantics are identical to the pattern parse stage, with an exception that named captures are not allowed: fields are never extracted at filtering.

Line match pattern example:

```logql
{service_name=`ingester`} |>  `<_> caller=http.go:194 level=debug <_> msg="POST /grpc.health.v1.Health/Check (200) <_>`
```

Line match not pattern example:

```logql
{service_name=`ingester`} !>  `<_> caller=http.go:194 level=debug <_> msg="POST /grpc.health.v1.Health/Check (200) <_>`
```

### Order of operations

When chaining or combining operators, you have to consider operator precedence:
Generally, you can assume regular [mathematical convention](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Order_of_operations) with operators on the same precedence level being left-associative.

More details can be found in the [Golang language documentation](https://golang.org/ref/spec#Operator_precedence).

`1 + 2 / 3` is equal to `1 + ( 2 / 3 )`.

`2 * 3 % 2` is evaluated as `(2 * 3) % 2`.

### Keywords on and ignoring
The `ignoring` keyword causes specified labels to be ignored during matching.
The syntax:
```logql
<vector expr> <bin-op> ignoring(<labels>) <vector expr>
```
This example will return the machines which total count within the last minutes exceed average value for app `foo`.
```logql
max by(machine) (count_over_time({app="foo"}[1m])) > bool ignoring(machine) avg(count_over_time({app="foo"}[1m]))
```
The on keyword reduces the set of considered labels to a specified list.
The syntax:
```logql
<vector expr> <bin-op> on(<labels>) <vector expr>
```
This example will return every machine total count within the last minutes ratio in app `foo`:
```logql
sum by(machine) (count_over_time({app="foo"}[1m])) / on() sum(count_over_time({app="foo"}[1m]))
```

### Many-to-one and one-to-many vector matches
Many-to-one and one-to-many matchings occur when each vector element on the "one"-side can match with multiple elements on the "many"-side. You must explicitly request matching by using the group_left or group_right modifier, where left or right determines which vector has the higher cardinality.
The syntax:
```logql
<vector expr> <bin-op> ignoring(<labels>) group_left(<labels>) <vector expr>
<vector expr> <bin-op> ignoring(<labels>) group_right(<labels>) <vector expr>
<vector expr> <bin-op> on(<labels>) group_left(<labels>) <vector expr>
<vector expr> <bin-op> on(<labels>) group_right(<labels>) <vector expr>
```
The label list provided with the group modifier contains additional labels from the "one"-side that are included in the result metrics. And a label should only appear in one of the lists specified by `on` and `group_x`. Every time series of the result vector must be uniquely identifiable.
Grouping modifiers can only be used for comparison and arithmetic. By default, the system matches `and`, `unless`, and `or` operations with all entries in the right vector.

The following example returns the rates requests partitioned by `app` and `status` as a percentage of total requests.
```logql
sum by (app, status) (
  rate(
    {job="http-server"}
      | json
      [5m]
  )
)
/ on (app) group_left
sum by (app) (
  rate(
    {job="http-server"}
      | json
      [5m]
  )
)

=>
[
  {app="foo", status="200"} => 0.8
  {app="foo", status="400"} => 0.1
  {app="foo", status="500"} => 0.1
]
```
This version uses `group_left(<labels>)` to include `<labels>` from the right hand side in the result and returns the cost of discarded events per user, organization, and namespace:
```logql
sum by (user, namespace) (
  rate(
    {job="events"}
      | logfmt
      | discarded="true"
      [5m]
  )
)
* on (user) group_left(organization)
max_over_time(
  {job="cost-calculator"}
    | logfmt
    | unwrap cost
    [5m]
) by (user, organization)

=>
[
  {user="foo", namespace="dev", organization="little-org"} => 10
  {user="foo", namespace="prod", organization="little-org"} => 50
  {user="bar", namespace="dev", organization="big-org"} => 70
  {user="bar", namespace="prod", organization="big-org"} => 200
]
```

## Comments

LogQL queries can be commented using the `#` character:

```logql
{app="foo"} # anything that comes after will not be interpreted in your query
```

With multi-line LogQL queries, the query parser can exclude whole or partial lines using `#`:

```logql
{app="foo"}
    | json
    # this line will be ignored
    | bar="baz" # this checks if bar = "baz"
```

## Pipeline Errors

There are multiple reasons which cause pipeline processing errors, such as:

- A numeric label filter may fail to turn a label value into a number
- A metric conversion for a label may fail.
- A log line is not a valid json document.
- etc...

When those failures happen, Loki won't filter out those log lines. Instead they are passed into the next stage of the pipeline with a new system label named `__error__`. The only way to filter out errors is by using a label filter expressions. The `__error__` label can't be renamed via the language.

For example to remove json errors:

```logql
  {cluster="ops-tools1",container="ingress-nginx"}
    | json
    | __error__ != "JSONParserErr"
```

Alternatively you can remove all error using a catch all matcher such as `__error__ = ""` or even show only errors using `__error__ != ""`.

The filter should be placed after the stage that generated this error. This means if you need to remove errors from an unwrap expression it needs to be placed after the unwrap.

```logql
quantile_over_time(
	0.99,
	{container="ingress-nginx",service="hosted-grafana"}
	| json
	| unwrap response_latency_seconds
	| __error__=""[1m]
	) by (cluster)
```

>Metric queries cannot contain errors, in case errors are found during execution, Loki will return an error and appropriate status code.

## Functions

Loki supports functions to operate on data.

### label_replace()

For each time series in `v`,

```
label_replace(v instant-vector,
    dst_label string,
    replacement string,
    src_label string,
    regex string)
```
matches the regular expression `regex` against the label `src_label`.
If it matches, then the time series is returned with the label `dst_label` replaced by the expansion of `replacement`.

`$1` is replaced with the first matching subgroup,
`$2` with the second etc.
If the regular expression doesn't match,
then the time series is returned unchanged.

This example will return a vector with each time series having a `foo` label with the value `a` added to it:

```logql
label_replace(rate({job="api-server",service="a:c"} |= "err" [1m]), "foo", "$1",
  "service", "(.*):.*")
```
