docs/sources/visualize/grafana.md, before:

---
title: Visualize log data
menuTitle: Visualize
description: Visualize your log data with Grafana
aliases:
   - ../getting-started/grafana/
   - ../operations/grafana/
weight: 725
keywords:
   - visualize
   - grafana
   - dashboards
---
# Visualize log data

[Grafana 6.0](/grafana/download/6.0.0) and more recent
versions have built-in support for Grafana Loki.
Use [Grafana 6.3](/grafana/download/6.3.0) or a more
recent version to take advantage of [LogQL]({{< relref "../query/_index.md" >}}) functionality.

1. Log into your Grafana instance. If this is your first time running
   Grafana, the username and password are both defaulted to `admin`.
1. In Grafana, go to `Configuration` > `Data Sources` via the cog icon on the
   left sidebar.
1. Click the big <kbd>+ Add data source</kbd> button.
1. Choose Loki from the list.
1. The http URL field should be the address of your Loki server. For example,
   when running locally or with Docker using port mapping, the address is
   likely `http://localhost:3100`. When running with docker-compose or
   Kubernetes, the address is likely `http://loki:3100`.
1. To see the logs, click <kbd>Explore</kbd> on the sidebar, select the Loki
   datasource in the top-left dropdown, and then choose a log stream using the
   <kbd>Log labels</kbd> button.
1. Learn more about querying by reading about Loki's query language [LogQL]({{< relref "../query/_index.md" >}}).

Read more about Grafana's Explore feature in the
[Grafana documentation](http://docs.grafana.org/features/explore) and on how to
search and filter for logs with Loki.

To configure Loki as a datasource via provisioning, see [Configuring Grafana via
Provisioning](http://docs.grafana.org/features/datasources/loki/#configure-the-datasource-with-provisioning).
Set the URL in the provisioning.

Commit message:

Add urls to connect Grafana (on Docker) to Loki (local buid instance) (#10694)
10692 - Added urls for Mac and Windows when connecting a Grafana running
on Docker to a locally built Loki instance

**What this PR does / why we need it**:
I've added 2 URLs (mac and windows) that needs to be used if the user is
running a Grafana with docker and trying to connect to a locally built
Loki running on localhost (not Docker). When trying to figure out how to
run the buids, it was very confusing as to why it's not working, I had
to research to try to make the connection work. zDocumentation in
setting up a local development environemtn can actually use some
improvement as well as I had to moved from one section to another.

**Which issue(s) this PR fixes**:
Fixes #10692

**Special notes for your reviewer**:



**Checklist**
- [x] Reviewed the
[`CONTRIBUTING.md`](https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
guide (**required**)
- [x] Documentation added
- [x] Tests updated
- [ ] `CHANGELOG.md` updated
- [ ] If the change is worth mentioning in the release notes, add
`add-to-release-notes` label
- [ ] Changes that require user attention or interaction to upgrade are
documented in `docs/sources/setup/upgrade/_index.md`
- [ ] For Helm chart changes bump the Helm chart version in
`production/helm/loki/Chart.yaml` and update
`production/helm/loki/CHANGELOG.md` and
`production/helm/loki/README.md`. [Example
PR](https://github.com/grafana/loki/commit/d10549e3ece02120974929894ee333d07755d213)

Co-authored-by: A C N <145731451+aclassynerd@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sources/visualize/grafana.md, after:

---
title: Visualize log data
menuTitle: Visualize
description: Visualize your log data with Grafana
aliases:
   - ../getting-started/grafana/
   - ../operations/grafana/
weight: 725
keywords:
   - visualize
   - grafana
   - dashboards
---
# Visualize log data

[Grafana 6.0](/grafana/download/6.0.0) and more recent
versions have built-in support for Grafana Loki.
Use [Grafana 6.3](/grafana/download/6.3.0) or a more
recent version to take advantage of [LogQL]({{< relref "../query/_index.md" >}}) functionality.

1. Log into your Grafana instance. If this is your first time running
   Grafana, the username and password are both defaulted to `admin`.
1. In Grafana, go to `Configuration` > `Data Sources` via the cog icon on the
   left sidebar.
1. Click the big <kbd>+ Add data source</kbd> button.
1. Choose Loki from the list.
1. The http URL field should be the address of your Loki server. For example,
   when running locally or with Docker using port mapping, the address is
   likely `http://localhost:3100`. When running with docker-compose or
   Kubernetes, the address is likely `http://loki:3100`.\
   When running Grafana (with Docker) and trying to connect to a locally built Loki instance, the address (for the URL field) is:\
   On Mac: `docker.for.mac.localhost` \
   On Windows: `docker.for.win.localhost`
1. To see the logs, click <kbd>Explore</kbd> on the sidebar, select the Loki
   datasource in the top-left dropdown, and then choose a log stream using the
   <kbd>Log labels</kbd> button.
1. Learn more about querying by reading about Loki's query language [LogQL]({{< relref "../query/_index.md" >}}).

Read more about Grafana's Explore feature in the
[Grafana documentation](http://docs.grafana.org/features/explore) and on how to
search and filter for logs with Loki.

To configure Loki as a datasource via provisioning, see [Configuring Grafana via
Provisioning](http://docs.grafana.org/features/datasources/loki/#configure-the-datasource-with-provisioning).
Set the URL in the provisioning.
