---
title: V2.7
description: Version 2.7 release notes
weight: 700
---

# V2.7

Grafana Labs is excited to announce the release of Loki 2.7. Here's a summary of new enhancements and important fixes:

## Features and enhancements

- **New Internal Server and TLS** TLS can now be configured everywhere and there is an internal server to allow ring, memberlist, and readiness handlers to continue to work without TLS.
- **Better Support for Azure Blob Storage** thanks to the ability to use Azure's Service Principal Credentials.
- **Logs can now be pushed from the Loki canary** so you don't have to rely on a scraping service to use the canary.
- **Additional `label_format` fields** `__timestamp__` and `__line__`.
- **`fifocache` has been renamed** The in-memory `fifocache` has been renamed to `embedded-cache`. Check [upgrade guide]({{< relref "../setup/upgrade#270" >}}) for more details
- **New HTTP endpoint for Ingester shutdown** that will also delete the ring token.
- **Faster label queries** thanks to new parallization.
- **Introducing Stream Sharding** an experimental new feature to help deal with very large streams.
- **Promtail**
  - support for max stream limit
  - config reload endpoint / signal
  - compressed file support
  - `lambda-promtail` now supports Kinesis data stream events
  - matches for the journal reader
  - basic tracing support

For a full list of all, look at the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

## Upgrade Considerations

As always, please read the [upgrade guide]({{< relref "../setup/upgrade#270" >}}) before upgrading Loki.

## Bug fixes

### 2.7.5 (2023-03-28)

* Flush buffered logger on exit: this makes sure logs are printed if Loki crashes on startup.

### 2.7.4 (2023-02-24)

* Fixed different streams for `cri` tags ending on the same stream.
* Fixed the `userdata` field (from Windows Event Log) being scraped incorrectly.
* Fixed `vector()` function producing wrong timestamp.
* Fixed behavior for overlapping chunks with multiple stores.
* Fixed logs results caching causing query-frontend to return logs outside of query window.
* Fixed panics when:
  * `/scheduler/ring` endpoint is requested with scheduler ring disabled.
  * LogQL clones a specific query.
  * Promtail deals with invalid calls to `Details()`.

### 2.7.3 (2023-02-01)

* Fixed a bug in compactor that caused divide-by-zero panics when `startTime` and `endTime` of a delete request were equal.
* Fixed the output of the `--version` command that showed an incorrect version information.

### 2.7.2 (2023-01-25)

* Fixed bug in validation of `pattern` and `regexp` parsers where missing or empty parameters for these parsers caused panics.
* Fixed bugs in processing delete requests with line filters:
  * Whole chunks covered by delete requests with a line filter were incorrectly skipped.
  * Chunks partially covered by delete requests with a line filter were not properly processed.
    The part that was not covered by the delete request was rewritten with a line filter, while the part that was covered by the delete request was completely deleted.
* Fixed bug in multi-tenant querying that caused HTTP 400 responses when multiple tenants where used in `X-Scope-OrgID` header like so `tenant-a|tenant-b`.
* Upgraded Go build version and Docker container base images to 1.19.5 to mitigate [GO-2022-1144](https://pkg.go.dev/vuln/GO-2022-1144) vulnerability.

### 2.7.1 (2022-12-09)

* Add single compactor http client for delete and gennumber clients. This fixes a bug caused by the accidental introduction of different HTTP clients for compactor and gennumber operations that resulted in 404s when only the gennumber middlewares were enabled:

    ```console
    level=error ts=2022-10-18T14:13:41.598649348Z caller=delete_requests_client.go:211 msg="error getting delete requests from the store" err="unexpected status code: 404"
    ts=2022-10-18T14:13:41.598697295Z caller=spanlogger.go:80 user=application level=error msg="failed loading deletes for user" err="unexpected status code: 404"
    ```

* Change default deletion mode to `filter-only` on account of the bug (see below).

#### Known Issues

* There is a bug with the experimental deletion mode in 2.6.x and 2.7.x that in some cases can cause the wrong chunks to be deleted. As a result we have changed the default deletion mode to `filter-only` until this bug has been addressed.
