.\" treetop - Bringing the simplicity of Ruby to syntactic analysis
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Nathan Sobo.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
.\" THE SOFTWARE.
.TH tt 1 2013-06-19 Treetop "Treetop v1.4.14"
.SH NAME
tt \- Compile a treetop grammar file to ruby source code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tt
.RI [ options "] " grammar_file "[.treetop|.tt] ..."

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B tt
program is a command-line script to compile .treetop files into Ruby
source code.

The
.B tt
program takes a list of files with a .treetop extension and compiles
them into .rb files of the same name. You can then require these files
like any other Ruby script.

Alternately, you can supply just one .treetop file and a \-o flag to
specify the name of the output file.

Note: while treetop grammar files
.B must
have a supported filename extensions, (.treetop or .tt), the extension
name is not required when calling the compiler with grammar file
names.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.BI "\-o, \-\-output" " FILENAME"

Write parser source to 
.I FILENAME.
.TP 4
.B \-f, \-\-force

Overwrite existing output file(s)
.TP 4
.B \-v, \-\-version

Show Treetop version
.TP 4
.B \-h, \-\-help

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 4
1 grammar -> 1 parser source

tt foo.tt
.TP 4
2 grammars -> 2 separate parsers

tt foo bar.treetop
.TP 4
Alternately named output file

tt \-o alterate_name.rb foo
.SH SEE ALSO

The treetop website:

.B http://cjheath.github.io/treetop/
